Course Objective: provide a theoretical basis for broad range of ML concepts, hands-on experience on ML and data science skills through assignments.
Pre-reqs: Linear algebra, Probability, Algorithms. Familiarity with Python and Jupyter Notebook.
Recommended Books: Introduction to machine Learning, Third Edition, Ethem Alpaydin, MIT Press 2014
Python Machine Learning: Machine Learning and Deep Learning with Python, scikitlearn, and TensorFlow 2, Third Edition, Sebastian Rachka and Vahid Mirjalili, Packt Publishing, 2020. 

### Project
Pick a project that appeals to you and make a proposal - pick something that is not as straightforward as one of your assignments.
**End-to-End Implementation** : using data science skills
**Presentation of the Project** : Peer-to-peer ranking using peerceptive tool, presentation to the class at the end

# Introduction to Machine Learning
“A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E.” - Tom M. Mitchell, 1997
	T: Definition of what you want to learn
		Ex: Recognizing cat in photos
	E: What data are you going to provide for learning?
		Ex: Looking at 1000s of pictures of cats and non-cats
	P: How are you going to measure success?
		Ex: How many photos were correctly labeled as cat photos?

What is fueling ML and applications today?
- Explosion of data
- Compute power, distributed computing
- Powerful learning algorithms that use self-supervision:
	- E.g. ChatGPT used 175B parameters

## four categories
**Supervised Learning**: application using classification methods
	Spam/Not Spam
	Audio - speech, music, applause
	New Member fraud detection
	Student success prediction
	Speech Recognition
**Applications using Regression methods**: There is a real value/number
	Weather forecasting
	Stock Price Prediction
	Infrastructure Capacity Planning
	Recommendation systems

### Recommendation Systems
Think of Netflix, Amazon making recommendations
Matrix: Rows = users, columns = items (movies, songs, products). Each cell is how much a user likes an item based on rating.
Given a user-item matrix: A(M \* N)
	M users and N items
	A[i, j] - user i's rating of item j
Matrix factorization of A = FG
	F is M * K matrix - user gets a hidden interests vector (how much they like something)
		M users * k hidden features
	G is K * N matrix - items hidden properties - what attributes it has (for movie example, if it is actiony, or romancey)
		k hidden features * n items

### Examples of Unsupervised learning and applications
Trying to find patterns and make predictions based on data, without labels. Find structures/patterns on its own. 
Applications using clustering = grouping things
	Customer segmentation for marketing and promotion
		By behavior (one group buys luxury items)
	IT Alert Clustering: To understand typical issues in an IT infrastructure
		See common issues
	Anomaly Detection use cases in security:
		Lateral movement detection: atypical access pattern
		Login anomaly detection - used a lot in security
Association rule mining and sequential pattern mining = finding common patterns
	Typical patterns in the data
	Common combinations in data - people who buy bread buy butter (for example)
		If p, then q patterns
Dimensionality Reduction = simplify data but keep it's essence
	E.G PCA (principal components analysis)
		Compresses data into fewer features but keeps important pattenrs
	Multimedia fingerprinting
		Create a robust representation of media so that it can be matched even with sever modifications on the data
			E.G copyright protection in YouTube
				Shazam Song identification

### Reinforcement Learning
No explicit labels are provided
Learning agents explores an Environment to learn an optimal policy
Learning agent interacts with the environment based on observations and its current state
	Environment responds back with a reward
Goal of RL algorithm is to learn a policy that maximizes the cumulative reward
	Policy: What action should the agent take given the current state?

Learning by interacting with an environment
	Tries actions
	Sees what happens
	Gets rewards
At each step t:
	Agent chooses an action (A_t), receives observation O_t and receives scalar reward R_t
	The environment receives action A_t, sends an observation (O_t+1) what the agent sees now, and gives a reward R_t+1

## Machine Learning Formulation
Given, ${\left\{ {{x^i},{y^i}} \right\}_k}$,
Find $f\left( {x,{{\hat \theta }_k}} \right)$, such that $\hat y = f\left( {x,{{\hat \theta }_k}} \right) \approx y$, where ${{\hat \theta }_k}$ is a vector of parameters. We want $\hat y \approx y$ for all $\left( {x,y} \right)$ drawn from the same distribution from which ${\left\{ {{x^i},{y^i}} \right\}_k}$ was drawn. Typically, we find ${{\hat \theta }_k}$ by minimizing a loss function ${L_k}\left( {{{\left\{ {{{\hat y}^i},{y^i}} \right\}}_k},{\theta _k}} \right);$ ${{\hat \theta }_k} = \mathop {{\rm{argmin}}} \limits_{{\theta _k}} {\rm{ }}{L_k}\left( {{{\left\{ {{{\hat y}^i},{y^i}} \right\}}_k},{\theta _k}} \right).$
The data: ${\left\{ {{x^i},{y^i}} \right\}_k}$, we have k training examples, with an input and output label
$f\left( {x,{{\hat \theta }_k}} \right)$ : Build a function that takes x as input and some parameter. We don't know the parameter, we need to learn it.
${L_k}\left( {{{\left\{ {{{\hat y}^i},{y^i}} \right\}}_k},{\theta _k}} \right)$ : Loss function, how far off our predictions y_hat are from y^i. Lower loss = better fit
 ${{\hat \theta }_k} = \mathop {{\rm{argmin}}} \limits_{{\theta _k}} {\rm{ }}{L_k}\left( {{{\left\{ {{{\hat y}^i},{y^i}} \right\}}_k},{\theta _k}} \right).$ : Find the parameter that minimizes loss
$\hat y = f\left( {x,{{\hat \theta }_k}} \right) \approx y$

## ML Assumptions
Training data is large enough and is representative of the distribution from which it was drawn.
	Needs to be big enough and representative of real world. if it is biased or missing important cases, the model won't learn well.
The chosen class of functions f has the capacity to capture relationship between x and y
	E.g. if you choose a linear function while the relationship between x and y is non-linear
	High Bias scenario - High training error
	The right kind of model for the problem. if the real relationship between input x and output y is curved, but you only allow a straight line, it won't fit well 
	
The Loss Function captures what we want to optimize for (business objective) and we can find a solution
	Tells what "good" means
	If your goal is to predict housing prices, loss might measure the average difference between predicted and real prices.
Learnt parameters will generalize well on future examples:
- Assumption future data is also drawn from the same distribution the training data is from
- E.g Training was done using high-quality image examples but the model was deployed to detect objects from a noisy low-resolution picture.
- The goal isn't just doing well on training data, but on new and unseen data

1. Enough representative training data.
2. A model flexible enough to capture the true relationship.
3. A loss function that matches your goal.
4. Training and test data to come from the same kind of real-world scenarios.